Devi Suktam - RV 10.125
I TRAVEL with the Rudras and the Vasus, with the Ādityas and All-Gods I wander. I hold aloft both Varuṇa and Mitra, Indra and Agni, and the Pair of Aśvins.  I cherish and sustain high-swelling Soma, and Tvaṣṭar I support, Pūṣan, and Bhaga. I load with wealth the zealous sdcrificer who pours the juice and offers his oblation  I am the Queen, the gatherer-up of treasures, most thoughtful, first of those who merit worship. Thus Gods have stablished me in many places with many homes to enter and abide in.  Through me alone all eat the food that feeds them,—each man who sees, brewhes, hears the word outspoken They know it not, but yet they dwell beside me. Hear, one and all, the truth as I declare it. 1, verily, myself announce and utter the word that Gods and men alike shall welcome. I make the man I love exceeding mighty, make him a sage, a Ṛṣi, and a Brahman. I bend the bow for Rudra that his arrow may strike and slay the hater of devotion. I rouse and order battle for the people, and I have penetrated Earth and Heaven. On the world's summit I bring forth the Father: my home is in the waters, in the ocean. Thence I extend o’er all existing creatures, and touch even yonder heaven with my forehead. I breathe a strong breath like the wind and tempest, the while I hold together all existence. Beyond this wide earth and beyond the heavens I have become so mighty in my grandeur.

Vivaha Suktam - RV 10.85
TRUTH is the base that bears the earth; by Sūrya are the heavens sustained.By Law the Ādityas stand secure, and Soma holds his place in heaven. By Soma are the Ādityas strong, by Soma mighty is the earth.Thus Soma in the midst of all these constellations hath his place. One thinks, when they have brayed the plant, that he hath drunk the Soma's juice;Of him whom Brahmans truly know as Soma no one ever tastes. Soma, secured by sheltering rules, guarded by hymns in Brhati,Thou standest listening to the stones none tastes of thee who dwells on earth. When they begin to drink thee then, O God, thou swellest out again.Vāyu is Soma's guardian God. The Moon is that which shapes the years. Raibhi was her dear bridal friend, and Narasamsi led her home.Lovely was Sūrya's robe: she came to that which Gatha had adorned. Thought was the pillow of her couch, sight was the unguent for her eyes:Her treasury was earth and heaven.ẉhen Sūrya went unto her Lord. Hymns were the cross-bars of the pole, Kurira-metre decked the car:The bridesmen were the Aśvin Pair Agni was leader of the train. Soma was he who wooed the maid: the groomsmen were both Aśvins, whenThe Sun-God Savitar bestowed his willing Sūrya on her Lord. Her spirit was the bridal car; the covering thereof was heaven:Bright were both Steers that drew it when Sūrya approached her husband's, home. Thy Steers were steady, kept in place by holy verse and Sāma-hymn:All car were thy two chariot wheels: thy path was tremulous in the sky, Clean, as thou wentest, were thy wheels wind, was the axle fastened there.Sūrya, proceeding to her Lord, mounted a spirit-fashioried car. The bridal pomp of Sūrya, which Savitar started, moved along.In Magha days are oxen slain, in Arjuris they wed the bride. When on your three-wheeled chariot, O Aśvins, ye came as wooers unto Sūrya's bridal,Then all the Gods agreed to your proposal Pūṣan as Son elected you as Fathers. O ye Two Lords of lustre, then when ye to Sūrya's wooing came,Where was one chariot wheel of yours? Where stood ye for die Sire's command? The Brahmans, by their seasons, know, O Sūrya, those two wheels of thine:One kept concealed, those only who are skilled in highest truths have learned. To Sūrya and the Deities, to Mitra and to Varuṇa.Who know aright the thing that is, this adoration have I paid. By their own power these Twain in close succession move;They go as playing children round the sacrifice.One of the Pair beholdeth all existing things; the other ordereth seasons and is born again. He, born afresh, is new and new for ever ensign of days he goes before the MorningsComing, he orders f6r the Gods their portion. The Moon prolongs the days of our existence. Mount this, all-shaped, gold-hued, with strong wheels, fashioned of Kimsuka and Salmali, light-rolling,Bound for the world of life immortal, Sūrya: make for thy lord a happy bridal journey. Rise up from hence: this maiden hath a husband. I laud Visvavasu with hymns and homage.Seek in her father's home another fair one, and find the portion from of old assigned thee. Rise up from hence, Visvavasu: with reverence we worship thee.Seek thou another willing maid, and with her husband leave the bride. Straight in direction be the path:s, and thornless, whereon our fellows travel to the wooing.Let Aryaman and Bhaga lead us: perfect, O Gods, the union of the wife and husband. Now from the noose of Varuṇa I free thee, wherewith Most Blessed Savitar hath bound thee.In Law's seat, to the world of virtuous action, I give thee up uninjured with thy consort. Hence, and not thence, I send these free. I make thee softly fettered there.That, Bounteous Indra, she may live blest in her fortune and her sons. Let Pūṣan take thy hand and hence conduct thee; may the two Aśvins on their car transport thee.Go to the house to be the household's mistress and speak as lady ito thy gathered people. Happy be thou and prosper witlh thy children here: be vigilant to rule thy household in this home.Closely unite thy body with this; man, thy lord. So shall ye, full of years, address your company. Her hue is blue and red: the fienod who clingeth close is driven off.Well thrive the kinsmen of this bride the husband is bourid fast in bonds. Give thou the woollen robe away: deal treasure to the Brahman priests.This female fiend hath got her feet, and as a wife attends her lord. Unlovely is his body when it glistens with this wicked fiend,What time the husband wraps about his limbs the garment of his wife. Consumptions, from her people, which follow the bride's resplendent train,—These let the Holy Gods again bear to the place from which they came. Let not the highway thieves who lie in ambush find the wedded pair.By pleasant ways let them escape the danger, and let foes depart. Signs of good fortune mark the bride come all of you and look at her.Wish her prosperity, and then return unto your homes again. Pungent is this, and bitter this, filled, as it were, with arrow-barbs, Empoisoned andṇot fit for use.The Brahman who knows Sūrya well deserves the garment of the bride. The fringe, the cloth that decks her head, and then the triply parted robe,—Behold the hues which Sūrya wears these doth the Brahman purify. I take thy hand in mine for happy fortune that thou mayst reach old age with me thy husband.Gods, Aryaman, Bhaga, Savitar, Purandhi, have given thee to be my household's mistress. O Pūṣan, send her on as most auspicious, her who shall be the sharer of my pleasures;Her who shall twine her loving arms about me, and welcome all my love and mine embraces. For thee, with bridal train, they, first, escorted Sūrya to her home.Give to the husband in return, Agni, the wife with progeny. Agni hath given the bride again with splendour and with ample life.Long lived be he who is her lord; a hundred autumns let him live. Soma obtained her first of all; next the Gandharva was her lord.Agai was thy third husband: now one bornof woman is thy fourth. Soma to the Gandharva, and to Agni the Gandharva gave:And Agni hath bestowed on me riches and sons and this my spouse. Be ye not parted; dwell ye here reach the full time of human life.With sons and grandsons sport and play, rejoicing in your own abode. So may Prajāpati bring children forth to us; may Aryaman adorn us till old age come nigh.Not inauspicious enter thou thy husband's house: bring blessing to our bipeds and our quadrupeds. Not evil-eyed, no slayer of thy husband, bring weal to cattle, radiant, gentlehearted;Loving the Gods, delightful, bearing heroes, bring blessing to our quadrupeds and bipeds.O Bounteous Indra, make this bride blest in her sons and fortunate.Vouchsafe to her ten sons, and make her husband the eleventh man. Over thy husband's father and thy husband's mother bear full sway.Over the sister of thy lord, over his brothers rule supreme. So may the Universal Gods, so may the Waters join our hearts.May Mātariśvan, Dhātar, and Destri together bind us close.

Dhruva suktam (Pole star) 
RV 10.173 
BE with us; I have chosen thee: stand stedfast and immovable. Let all the people wish for thee let not thy kingship fall away. Be even here; fall not away be like a mountain unremoved. Stand stedfast here like Indra's self, and hold the kingship in the grasp. This man hath Indra stablished, made secure by strong oblation's power. May Soma speak a benison, and Brahmaṇaspati, on him. Firm is the sky and firm the earth, and stedfast also are these hills. Stedfast is all this living world, and stedfast is this King of men. Stedfast, may Varuṇa the King, stedfast, the God Bṛhaspati, Stedfast, may Indra, stedfast too, may Agni keep thy stedfast reign. On constant Soma let us think with constant sacrificial gift And then may Indra make the clans bring tribute unto thee alone.
RV 10.174 
WITH offering for success in fight whence Indra was victorious. With this, O Brahmaṇaspati, let us attain to royal sway. Subduing those who rival us, subduing all malignities, Withstand the man who menaces, withstand the man who angers us. Soma and Savitar the God have made thee a victorious King All elements have aided thee, to make thee general conqueror. Oblation, that which Indra. gave and thus grew glorious and most high,— This have I offered, Gods! and hence now, verily, am rivalless. Slayer of rivals, rivalless, victorious, with royal sway, Over these beings may I rule, may I be Sovran of the folk.

Manyu suktam (Temper) 
RV 10.83 
HE who hath reverenced thee, Manyu, destructive bolt, breeds for himself forthwith all conquering energy. Ārya and Dāsa will we conquer with thine aid, with thee the Conqueror, with conquest conquest-sped. Manyu was Indra, yea, the God, was Manyu, Manyu was Hotar, Varuṇa, Jātavedas. The tribes of human lineage worship Manyu. Accordant with thy fervour, Manyu, guard us. Come hither, Manyu, mightier tham the mighty; chase, with thy fervour for ally, our foemen. Slayer of foes, of Vṛtra, and of Dasyu, bring thou to us all kinds of wealth and treasure. For thou art, Manyu, of surpassing vigour, fierce, queller of the foe, and self-existent, Shared by all men, victorious, subduer: vouchsafe to us superior strengith in battles. I have departed, still without a portion, wise God! according to thy will, the Mighty. I, feeble man, was wroth thee, O Manyu I am myself; come thou to give me vigour. Come hither. I am all thine own; advancing turn thou to me, Victorious, All-supporter! Come to me, Manyu, Wielder of the Thunder: bethink thee of thy friend, and slay the Dasyus. Approach, and on my right hand hold thy station: so shall we slay a multitude of foemen. The best of meath I offer to support thee: may we be first to drink thereof in quiet.
RV 10.84 
BORNE on with thee, O Manyu girt by Maruts, let our brave men, impetuous, bursting forward, March on, like flames of fire in form, exulting, with pointed arrows, sharpening their weapons. Flashing like fire, be thou, O conquering Manyu, invoked, O Victor, as our army's leader. Slay thou our foes, distribute their possessions: show forth thy vigour, scatter those who hate us. O Manyu, overcome thou our assailant on! breaking, slaying, crushing down the foemen. They have not hindered thine impetuous vigour: Mighty, Sole born! thou makest them thy subjects. Alone or many thou art worshipped, Manyu: sharpen the spirit of each clan for battle. With thee to aid, O thou of perfect splendour, we will uplift the glorious shout for conquest. Unyielding bringing victory like Indra, O Manyu, be thou here our Sovran Ruler. To thy dear name, O Victor, we sing praises: we know the spring from which thou art come hither. Twin-born with power, destructive bolt of thunder, the highest conquering might is thine, Subduer! Be friendly to its in thy spirit, Manyu, O Much-invoked, in shock of mighty battle. For spoil let Varuṇa and Manyu give us the wealth of both sides gathered and collected; And let our enemies with stricken spirits, o’erwhelmed with terror, slink away defeated.

Kumara Suktam
RV 4.15 
AGNI the Herald, like a horse, is led forth at our solemn rite, God among Gods adorable. Three times unto our solemn rite comes Agni like a charioteer, Bearing the viands to the Gods. Round the oblations hath he paced, Agni the Wise, the Lord of Strength, Giving the offerer precious boons. He who is kindled eastward for Sṛñjaya, Devāvata's son, Resplendent, tamer of the foe. So mighty be the Agni whom the mortal hero shall command, With sharpened teeth and bountiful. Day after day they dress him, as they clean a horse who wins the prize. Dress the red Scion of the Sky. When Sahadeva's princely son with two bay horses thought of me, Summoned by him I drew not back. And truly those two noble bays I straightway took when offered me, From Sahadeva's princely son. Long, O ye Aśvins, may he live, your care, ye Gods, the princely son. Of Sahadeva, Somaka. Cause him the youthful prince, the son of Sahadeva, to enjoy Long life, O Aśvins, O ye Gods.
RV 5.02
THE youthful Mother keeps the Boy in secret pressed to her close, nor yields him to the Father. But, when he lies upon the arm, the people see his unfading countenance before them. What child is this thou carriest as handmaid, O Youthful One? The Consort-Queen hath borne him. The Babe unborn increased through many autumns. I saw him born what time his Mother bare him. I saw him from afar gold-toothed, bright-coloured, hurling his weapons from his habitation, What time I gave him Amṛta free from mixture. How can the Indraless, the hymnless harm me? I saw him moving from the place he dwells in, even as with a herd, brilliantly shining. These seized him not: he had been born already. They who were grey with age again grow youthful. Who separate my young bull from the cattle, they whose protector was in truth no stranger? Let those whose hands have seized upon them free them. May he, observant, drive the herd to us-ward. Mid mortal men godless have secreted the King of all who live, home of the people. So may the prayers of Atri give him freedom. Reproached in turn be those who now reproach him. Thou from the stake didst loose e’en Śunaḥśepa bound for a thousand; for he prayed with fervour. So, Agni, loose from us the bonds that bind us, when thou art seated here, O Priest who knowest. Thou hast sped from me, Agni, in thine anger: this the protector of Gods’ Laws hath told me. Indra who knoweth bent his eye upon thee: by him instructed am I come, O Agni. Agni shines far and wide with lofty splendour, and by his greatness makes all things apparent. He conquers godless and malign enchantments, and sharpens both his horns to gore the Rakṣas. Loud in the heaven above be Agni's roarings with keen-edged weapons to destroy the demons. Forth burst his splendours in the Soma's rapture. The godless bands press round but cannot stay him. As a skilled craftsman makes a car, a singer I, Mighty One! this hymn for thee have fashioned. If thou, O Agni, God, accept it gladly, may we obtain thereby the heavenly Waters. May he, the strong-necked Steer, waxing in vigour, gather the foeman's wealth with none to check him. Thus to this Agni have the Immortals spoken. To man who spreads the grass may he grant shelter, grant shelter to the man who brings oblation.

Oshadhi Sukta (Herbal Hymn) - RV 10.97
HERBS that sprang up in time of old, three ages earlier than the Gods,— Of these, whose hue is brown, will I declare the hundred powers and seven. Ye, Mothers, have a hundred homes, yea, and a thousand are your growths. Do ye who have a thousand powers free this my patient from disease. Be glad and joyful in the Plants, both blossoming and bearing fruit, Plants that will lead us to success like mares who conquer in the race. Plants, by this name I speak to you, Mothers, to you the Goddesses: Steed, cow, and garment may I win, win back thy very self, O man. The Holy Fig tree is your home, your mansion is the Parna tree: Winners of cattle shali ye be if ye regain for me this man. He who hath store of Herbs at hand like Kings amid a crowd of men,— Physician is that sage's name, fiend-slayer, chaser of disease. Herbs rich in Soma, rich in steeds, in nourishments, in strengthening power,— All these have I provided here, that this man may be whole again. The healing virtues of the Plants stream forth like cattle from the stall,— Plants that shall win me store of wealth, and save thy vital breath, O man. Reliever is your mother's name, and hence Restorers are ye called. Rivers are ye with wings that fly: keep far whatever brings disease.  Over all fences have they passed, as steals a thief into the fold. The Plants have driven from the frame whatever malady was there. When, bringing back the vanished strength, I hold these herbs within my hand, The spirit of disease departs ere he can seize upon the life. He through whose frame, O Plants, ye creep member by member, joint by joint,— From him ye drive away disease like some strong arbiter of strife. Fly, Spirit of Disease, begone, with the blue jay and kingfisher. Fly with the wind's impetuousspeed, vanish together with the storm. Help every one the other, lend assistance each of you to each, All of you be accordant, give furtherance to this speech of mine. Let fruitful Plants, and fruitless, those that blossom, and the blossomless, Urged onward by Bṛhaspati, release us from our pain and grief; Release me from the curse's plague and woe that comes from Varuṇa; Free me from Yama's fetter, from sin and offence against the Gods. What time, descending from the sky, the Plants flew earthward, thus they spake: No evil shall befall the man whom while he liveth we pervade, Of all the many Plants whose King is, Soma, Plants of hundred forms, Thou art the Plant most excellent, prompt to the wish, sweet to the heart. O all ye various Herbs whose King is Soma, that o’erspread the earth, Urged onward by Bṛhaspati, combine your virtue in this Plant. Unharmed be he who digs you up, unharmed the man for whom I dig: And let no malady attack biped or quadruped of ours. All Plants that hear this speech, and those that have departed far away, Come all assembled and confer your healing power upon this Herb. With Soma as their Sovran Lord the Plants hold colloquy and say: O King, we save from death the man whose cure a Brahman undertakes. Most excellent of all art thou, O Plant thy vassals are the trees. Let him be subject to our power, the man who seeks to injure us.

Naṣṭa‑Dravya‑Prāpti Sūktam (Recovery of Lost Wealth) - RV 6.54
O PUSAN, bring us to the man who knows, who shall direct us straight, And say unto us, It is here. May we go forth with Pūṣan who shall point the houses out to us, And say to us, These same are they. Unharmed is Pūṣan's chariot wheel; the box ne’er falleth to the ground, Nor doth the loosened felIy shake. Pūṣan forgetteth not the man who serveth him with offered gift: That man is first to gather wealth. May Pūṣan follow near our kine; may Pūṣan keep our horses safe: May Pūṣan gather gear for us. Follow the kine of him who pours libations out and worships thee; And ours who sing thee songs of praise. Let none be lost, none injured, none sink in a pit and break a limb. Return with these all safe and sound. Pūṣan who listens to our prayers, the Strong whose wealth is never lost, The Lord of riches, we implore. Secure in thy protecting care, O Pūṣan, never may we fail. We here are they who sing thy praise. From out the distance, far and wide, may Pūṣan stretch his right hand forth, And drive our lost again to us.

Pitru Suktam (Hymn to the Ancestors) - RV 10.15
MAY they ascend, the lowest, highest, midmost, the Fathers who deserve a share of Soma- May they who have attained the life of spirits, gentle and righteous, aid us when we call them. Now let us pay this homage to the Fathers, to those who passed of old and those who followed, Those who have rested in the earthly region, and those who dwell among the Mighty Races. I have attained the gracious-minded Fathers, I have gained son and progeny from Viṣṇu. They who enjoy pressed juices with oblation seated on sacred grass, come oftenest hither. Fathers who sit on sacred grass, come, help us: these offerings have we made for you; accept them. So come to us with most auspicious favour, and give us health and strength without a trouble. May they, the Fathers, worthy of the Soma, invited to their favourite oblations. Laid on the sacred grass, come nigh and listen: may they be gracious unto us and bless us. Bowing your bended knees and seated southward, accept this sacrifice of ours with favour. Punish us not for any sin, O Fathers, which we through human frailty have committed. Lapped in the bosom of the purple Mornings, give riches to the man who brings oblations. Grant to your sons a portion of that treasure, and, present, give them energy, ye Fathers. Our ancient Fathers who deserve the Soma, who came, most noble, to our Soma banquet,— With these let Yama, yearning with the yearning, rejoicing eat our offerings at his pleasure. Come to us, Agni, with the gracioug Fathers who dwell in glowing light, the very Kavyas, Who thirsted mid the Gods, who hasten hither, oblation winners, theme of singers' praises. Come, Agni, come with countless ancient Fathers, dwellers in light, primeval, God-adorers, Eaters and drinkers of oblations, truthful, who travel with the Deities and Indra. Fathers whom Agni's flames have tasted, come ye nigh: ye kindly leaders, take ye each your proper place. Eat sacrificial food presented on the grass: grant riches with a multitude of hero sons. Thou, Agni Jātavedas, when entreated, didst bear the offerings which thou madest fragrant, And give them to the Fathers who did cat them with Svadha. Eat, thou God, the gifts we bring thee. Thou, Jātavedas, knowest well the number of Fathers who are here and who are absent, Of Fathers whom we know and whom we know not: accept the sacrifice wellprepared with portions. They who, consumed by fire or not cremated, joy in their offering in the midst of heaven,— Grant them, O Sovran Lord, the world of spirits and their own body, as thy pleasure wills it.

RAKSHOGHNA SUKTAM
RV 4.4
PUT forth like a wide-spreading net thy vigour; go like a mighty King with his attendants. Thou, following thy swift net, shootest arrows: transfix the fiends with darts that burn most fiercely. Forth go in rapid flight thy whirling weapons: follow them closely, glowing in thy fury. Spread with thy tongue the winged flames, O Agni; unfettered, cast thy firebrands all around thee. Send thy spies forward, fleetest in thy motion; be, ne’er deceived, the guardian of this people From him who, near or far, is bent on evil, and let no trouble sent from thee o’ercome us. Rise up, O Agni, spread thee out before us: burn down our foes, thou who hast sharpened arrows. Him, blazing Agni! who hath worked us mischief, consume thou utterly like dried-up stubble. Rise, Agni, drive off those who fight against us: make manifest thine own celestial vigour. Slacken the strong bows of the demon-driven: destroy our foemen whether kin or stranger. Most Youthful God, he knoweth well thy favour who gave an impulse to this high devotion. All fair days and magnificence of riches hast thou beamed forth upon the good man's portals. Blest, Agni, be the man, the liberal giver, who with his lauds and regular oblation Is fain to please thee for his life and dwelling. May all his days be bright: be this his longing. I praise thy gracious favour: sing in answer. May this my song sing like a loved one with thee. Lords of good steeds and cars may we adorn thee, and day by day vouchsafe thou us dominion. Here of free choice let each one serve thee richly, resplendent day by day at eve and morning. So may we honour thee, content and joyous, passing beyond the glories of the people. Whoso with good steeds and fine gold, O Agni, comes nigh thee on a car laden with treasure, His Friend art thou, yea, thou art his Protector whose joy it is to entertain thee duly. Through words and kinship I destroy the mighty: this power I have from Gotama my father. Mark thou this speech of ours, O thou Most Youthful, Friend of the House, exceeding wise, Invoker. Knowing no slumber, speedy and propitious, alert and ever friendly, most unwearied, May thy protecting powers, unerring Agni, taking their places here, combined, preserve us. Thy guardian rays, O Agni, when they saw him, preserved blind Māmateya from affliction. Lord of all riches, he preserved the pious: the fees who fain would harm them did no mischief. Aided by thee with thee may we be wealthy, may we gain strength with thee to guide us onward. Fulfil the words of both, O Ever Truthful: straightway do this, thou God whom power emboldens. O Agni, with this fuel will we serve thee; accept the laud we sing to thee with favour Destroy the cursing Rākṣasas: preserve us, O rich in friends, from guile and scorn and slander.
RV 10.87
I BALM with oil the mighty Rakṣas-slayer; to the most famous Friend I come for shelter Enkindled, sharpened by our rites, may Agni protect us in the day and night from evil. O Jātavedas with the teeth of iron, enkindled with thy flame attack the demons. Seize with thy longue the foolish gods' adorers: rend, put within thy mouth the raw-flesh caters. Apply thy teeth, the upper and the lower, thou who hast both, enkindled and destroying. Roam also in the air, O King, around us, and with thy jaws assail the wicked spirits. Bending thy shafts through sacrifices, Agni, whetting their points with song as if with whetstones, Pierce to the heart therewith the Yātudhānas, and break their arms uplifed to attack thee. Pierce through the Yātudhāna's skin, O Agni; let the destroying dart with fire consume him. Rend his joints, Jātavedas, let the cater of flesh, flesh-seeking, track his mangled body. Where now thou seest Agni Jātavedas, one of these demons standing still or roaming, Or flying on those paths in air's midregion, sharpen the shaft and as an archer pierce him. Tear from the evil spirit, Jātavedas, what he hath seized and with his spears hath captured. Blazing before him strike him down, O Agni; let spotted carrion-eating kites devour him. Here tell this forth, O Agni: whosoever is, he himself, or acteth as, a demon, Him grasp, O thou Most Youthful, with thy fuel. to the Mati-seer's eye give him as booty. With keen glance guard the sacrifice, O Agni: thou Sage, conduct it onward to the Vasus. Let not the fiends, O Man-beholder, harm thee burning against the Rākṣasas to slay them. Look on the fiend mid men, as Man-beholder: rend thou his three extremities in pieces. Demolish with thy flame his ribs, O Agni, the Yātudhāna's root destroy thou triply. Thrice, Agni, let thy noose surround the demon who with his falsehood injures Holy Order. Loud roaring with thy flame, O Jātavedas, crush him and cast him down before the singer. Lead thou the worshipper that eye, O Agni, wherewith thou lookest on the hoof-armed demon. With light celestial in Atharvan's manner burn up the foot who ruins truth with falsehood. Agni, what curse the pair this day have uttered, what heated word the worshippers have spoken, Each arrowy taunt sped from the angry spirit,—pierce to the heart therewith the Yātudhānas. With fervent heat exterminate the demons; destroy the fiends with burning flame, O Agni. Destroy with fire the foolish gods' adorers; blaze and destrepy the insatiable monsters. May Gods destroy this day the evil-doer may each hot curse of his return and blast him. Let arrows pierce the liar in his vitals, and Visva's net enclose the Yātudhāna. The fiend who smears himself with flesh of cattle, with flesh of horses and of human bodies, Who steals the milch-cow's milk away, O Agni,—tear off the heads of such with fiery fury. The cow gives milk each year, O Man-regarder: let not the Yātudhāna ever taste it. If one would glut him with the biesting, Agni, pierce with thy flame his vitals as he meets thee. Let the fiends drink the poison of the cattle; may Aditi cast off the evildoers. May the God Savitar give them up to ruin, and be their share of plants and herbs denied them. Agni, from days of old thou slayest demons: never shall Rākṣasas in fight o’ercome thee. Burn up the foolish ones, the flesh-devourers: let none of them escape thine heavenly arrow. Guard us, O Agni, from above and under, protect us fl-om behind us and before us; And may thy flames, most fierce and never wasting, glowing with fervent heat, consume the sinner. From rear, from front, from under, from above us, O King, protect us as a Sage with wisdom. Guard to old age thy friend, O Friend, Eternal: O Agni, as Immortal, guard us mortals. We set thee round us as a fort, victorious Agni, thee a Sage, Of hero lineage, day by day, destroyer of our treacherous foes. Burn with thy poison turned against the treacherous brood of Rākṣasas, O Agni, with thy sharpened glow, with lances armed with points of flame. Burn thou the paired Kimīdins, brun, Agni, the Yātudhāna pairs. I sharpen thee, Infallible, with hymns. O Sage, be vigilant. Shoot forth, O Agni, with thy flame demolish them on every side. Break thou the Yātudhāna's strength, the vigour of the Rākṣasa.

Ratri suktam (Goddess of the night)- RV 10.127
WITH all her eyes the Goddess Night looks forth approaching many a spot: She hath put all her glories on. Immortal. she hath filled the waste, the Goddess hath filled height and depth: She conquers darkness with her light. The Goddess as she comes hath set the Dawn her Sister in her place: And then the darkness vanishes. So favour us this night, O thou whose pathways we have visited As birds their nest upon the tree. The villagers have sought their homes, and all that walks and all that flies, Even the falcons fain for prey. Keep off the she-wolf and the wolf, O Urmya, keep the thief away; Easy be thou for us to pass. Clearly hath she come nigh to me who decks the dark with richest hues: O Morning, cancel it like debts. These have I brought to thee like kine. O Night, thou Child of Heaven, accept This laud as for a conqueror.

Varuna suktam
RV 1.25
WHATEVER law of thine, O God, O Varuṇa, as we are men, Day after day we violate. give us not as a prey to death, to be destroyed by thee in wrath, To thy fierce anger when displeased. To gain thy mercy, Varuṇa, with hymns we bind thy heart, as binds The charioteer his tethered horse. They flee from me dispirited, bent only on obtaining wealth, As to their nests the birds of air. When shall we bring, to be appeased, the Hero, Lord of warrior might, Him, the far-seeing Varuṇa? This, this with joy they both accept in common: never do they fail The ever-faithful worshipper. He knows the path of birds that fly through heaven, and, Sovran of the sea, He knows the ships that are thereon. True to his holy law, he knows the twelve moons with their progeny: He knows the moon of later birth. He knows the pathway of the wind, the spreading, high, and mighty wind: He knows the Gods who dwell above. Varuṇa, true to holy law, sits down among his people; he, Most wise, sits there to govern all. From thence perceiving he beholds all wondrous things, both what hath been, And what hereafter will be done. May that Āditya, very wise, make fair paths for us all our days: May he prolong our lives for us. Varuṇa, wearing golden mail, hath clad him in a shining robe. His spies are seated found about. The God whom enemies threaten not, nor those who tyrannize o’er men, Nor those whose minds are bent on wrong. He who gives glory to mankind, not glory that is incomplete, To our own bodies giving it. Yearning for the wide-seeing One, my thoughts move onward unto him, As kine unto their pastures move. Once more together let us speak, because my meath is brought: priest-like Thou eatest what is dear to thee. Now saw I him whom all may see, I saw his car above the earth: He hath accepted these my songs. Varuṇa, hear this call of mine: be gracious unto us this day Longing for help I cried to thee. Thou, O wise God, art Lord of all, thou art the King of earth and heaven Hear, as thou goest on thy way. Release us from the upper bond, untie the bond between, and loose The bonds below, that I may live.
RV 7.86
WISE, verily, are creatures through his greatness who stayed ever, spacious heaven and earth asunder; Who urged the high and mighty sky to motion, the Star of old, and spread the earth before him. With mine own heart I commune on the question how Varuṇa and I may be united. What gift of mine will he accept unangered? When may I calmly look and find him gracious? Fain to know this is my sin I question others: I seek the wise, O Varuṇa, and ask them. This one same answer even the sages gave me, "Surely this Varuṇa is angry with thee." What, Varuṇa, hath been my chief transgression, that thou wouldst slay the friend who sings thy praises? Tell me, Unconquerable Lord, and quickly sinless will I approach thee with mine homage. Free us from sins committed by our fathers, from those wherein we have ourselves offended. O King, loose, like a thief who feeds the cattle, as from the cord a calf, set free Vasiṣṭha. Not our own will betrayed us, but seduction, thoughtlessness, Varuṇa wine, dice, or anger. The old is near to lead astray the younger: even sleep removeth not all evil-doing. Slavelike may I do service to the Bounteous, serve, free from sin, the God inclined to anger. This gentle Lord gives wisdom to the simple: the wiser God leads on the wise to riches. O Lord, O Varuṇa, may this laudation come close to thee and lie within thy spirit. May it be well with us in rest and labour. Preserve us ever-more, ye Gods, with blessings.

Vāstu Sūktam (Dwelling Space)
RV 7.54  
ACKNOWLEDGE us, O Guardian of the Homestead: bring no disease, and give us happy entrance. Whate’er we ask of thee, be pleased to grant it, and prosper thou quadrupeds and bipeds. Protector of the Home, be our promoter: increase our wealth in kine and steeds, O Indu. May we be ever-youthful in thy friendship: be pleased in us as in his sons a father. Through thy dear fellowship that bringeth welfare, may we be victors, Guardian of the Dwelling! Protect our happiness in rest and labour. Preserve us evermore, ye Gods, with blessings.
RV 7.55.1
VASTOSPATI, who killest all disease and wearest every form, Be an auspicious Friend to us.
RV 8.17.14
Strong pillar thou, Lord of the home armour of Soma-offerers: The drop of Soma breaketh all the strongholds down, and Indra is the Ṛṣis’ Friend.

Vishnu suktam 
RV 1.22
WAKEN the Aśvin Pair who yoke their car at early morn: may they Approach to drink this Soma juice. We call the Aśvins Twain, the Gods borne in a noble car, the best Of charioteers, who reach the heavens. Dropping with honey is your whip, Aśvins, and full of pleasantness Sprinkle therewith the sacrifice. As ye go thither in your car, not far, O Aśvins, is the home Of him who offers Soma juice. For my protection I invoke the golden-handed Savitar. He knoweth, as a God, the place. That he may send us succour, praise the Waters’ Offspring Savitar: Fain are we for his holy ways. We call on him, distributer of wondrous bounty and of wealth, On Savitar who looks on men. Come hither, friends, and seat yourselves Savitar, to be praised by us, Giving good gifts, is beautiful. O Agni, hither bring to us the willing Spouses of the Gods, And Tvaṣṭar, to the Soma draught. Most youthful Agni, hither bring their Spouses, Hotrā, Bhāratī, Varūtrī, Dhiṣaṇā, for aid. Spouses of Heroes, Goddesses, with whole wings may they come to us With great protection and with aid. Indrāṇī, Varuṇānī, and Agnāyī hither I invite, For weal, to drink the Soma juice. May Heaven and Earth, the Mighty Pair, bedew for us our sacrifice, And feed us full with nourishments. Their water rich with fatness, there in the Gandharva's steadfast place, The singers taste through sacred songs. Thornless be thou, O Earth, spread wide before us for a dwelling-place: Vouchsafe us shelter broad and sure. The Gods be gracious unto us even from the place whence Viṣṇu strode Through the seven regions of the earth! Through all this world strode Viṣṇu; thrice his foot he planted, and the whole Was gathered in his footstep's dust. Viṣṇu, the Guardian, he whom none deceiveth, made three steps; thenceforth Establishing his high decrees. Look ye on Viṣṇu's works, whereby the Friend of Indra, close-allied, Hath let his holy ways be seen. The princes evermore behold that loftiest place where Viṣṇu is, Laid as it were an eye in heaven. This, Viṣṇu's station most sublime, the singers, ever vigilant, Lovers of holy song, light up.
RV 1.154
I WILL declare the mighty deeds of Viṣṇu, of him who measured out the earthly regions, Who propped the highest place of congregation, thrice setting down his footstep, widely striding. For this his mighty deed is Viṣṇu lauded, like some wild beast, dread, prowling, mountain-roaming; He within whose three wide-extended paces all living creatures have their habitation. Let the hymn lift itself as strength to Viṣṇu, the Bull far-striding, dwelling on the mountains, Him who alone with triple step hath measured this common dwelling-place, long, far extended. Him whose three places that are filled with sweetness, imperishable, joy as it may list them, Who verily alone upholds the threefold, the earth, the heaven, and all living creatures. May I attain to that his well-loved mansion where men devoted to the Gods are happy. For there springs, close akin to the Wide-Strider, the well of meath in Viṣṇu's highest footstep. Fain would we go unto your dwelling-places where there are many-horned and nimble oxen, For mightily, there, shineth down upon us the widely-striding Bull's sublimest mansion.
RV 1.155
To the great Hero, him who sets his mind thereon, and Viṣṇu, praise aloud in song your draught of juice,— Gods ne’er beguiled, who borne as ’twere by noble steed, have stood upon the lofty ridges of the hills. Your Soma-drinker keeps afar your furious rush, Indra and Viṣṇu, when ye come with all your might. That which hath been directed well at mortal man, bow-armed Kṛśānu's arrow, ye turn far aside. These offerings increase his mighty manly strength: he brings both Parents down to share the genial flow. He lowers, though a son, the Father's highest name; the third is that which is high in the light of heaven. We laud this manly power of him the Mighty One, preserver, inoffensive, bounteous and benign; His who strode, widely pacing, with three steppings forth over the realms of earth for freedom and for life. A mortal man, when he beholds two steps of him who looks upon the light, is restless with amaze. But his third step doth no one venture to approach, no, nor the feathered birds of air who fly with wings. He, like a rounded wheel, hath in swift motion set his ninety racing steeds together with the four. Developed, vast in form, with those who sing forth praise, a youth, no more a child, he cometh to our call.
RV 1.156
FAR-SHINING, widely famed, going thy wonted way, fed with the oil, be helpful. Mitra-like, to us. So, Viṣṇu, e’en the wise must swell thy song of praise, and he who hath oblations pay thee solemn rites. He who brings gifts to him the Ancient and the Last, to Viṣṇu who ordains, together with his Spouse, Who tells the lofty birth of him the Lofty One, shall verily surpass in glory e’en his peer. Him have ye satisfied, singers, as well as ye know, primeval germ of Order even from his birth. Ye, knowing e’en his name, have told it forth: may we, Viṣṇu, enjoy the grace of thee the Mighty One. The Sovran Varuṇa and both the Aśvins wait on this the will of him who guides the Marut host. Viṣṇu hath power supreme and might that finds the day, and with his Friend unbars the stable of the kine. Even he the Heavenly One who came for fellowship, Viṣṇu to Indra, godly to the godlier, Who Maker, throned in three worlds, helps the Āryan man, and gives the worshipper his share of Holy Law.
RV 6.69
INDRA and Viṣṇu, at my task's completion I urge you on with food and sacred service. Accept the sacrifice and grant us riches, leading us on by unobstructed pathways. Ye who inspire all hymns, Indra and Viṣṇu, ye vessels who contain the Soma juices, May hymns of praise that now are sung address you, the lauds that are recited by the singers. Lords of joy-giving draughts, Indra and Viṣṇu, come, giving gifts of treasure, to the Soma. With brilliant rays of hymns let chanted praises, repeated with the lauds, adorn and deck you. May your foe-conquering horses bring you hither, Indra and Viṣṇu, sharers of the banquet. Of all our hymns accept the invocations list to my prayers and hear the songs I sing you. This your deed, Indra-Viṣṇu, must be lauded: widely ye strode in the wild joy of Soma. Ye made the firmament of larger compass, and made the regions broad for our existence. Strengthened with sacred offerings, IndraViṣṇu, first eaters, served with worship ana oblation, Fed with the holy oil, vouchsafe us riches ye are the lake, the vat that holds the Soma. Drink of this meath, O Indra, thou, and Viṣṇu; drink ye your fill of Soma, Wonder-Workers. The sweet exhilarating juice hath reached you. Hear ye my prayers, give ear unto my calling. Ye Twain have conquered, ne’er have yc been conquered: never hath either of the Twain been vanquished. Ye, Indra-Viṣṇu, when ye fought the battle, produced this infinite with three divisions.
RV 7.99
MEN come not nigh thy majesty who growest beyond all bound and measure with thy body. Both thy two regions of the earth, O Viṣṇu, we know: thou God, knowest the highest also. None who is born or being born, God Viṣṇu, hath reached the utmost limit of thy grandeur. The vast high vault of heaven hast thou supported, and fixed earth's eastern pinnacle securely. Rich in sweet food be ye, and rich in milch-kine, with fertile pastures, fain to do men service. Both these worlds, Viṣṇu, hast thou stayed asunder, and firmly fixed the earth with pegs around it. Ye have made spacious room for sacrificing by generating Sūrya, Dawn, and Agni. O Heroes, ye have conquered in your battles even the bull-jawed Dāsa's wiles and magic. Ye have destroyed, thou, Indra, and thou Viṣṇu, Śambara's nine-and-ninety fenced castles. Ye Twain smote down a hundred times a thousand resistless heroes of the royal Varcin. This is the lofty hymn of praise, exalting the Lords of Mighty Stride, the strong and lofty. I laud you in the solemn synods, Viṣṇu: pour ye food on us in our camps, O Indra. O Viṣṇu, unto thee my lips cry Vaṣaṭ! Let this mine offering, Sipivista, please thee. May these my songs of eulogy exalt thee. Preserve us evermore, ye Gods, with blessings.
RV 7.100
NE’ER doth the man repent, who, seeking profit, bringeth his gift to the far-striding Viṣṇu. He who adoreth him with all his spirit winneth himself so great a benefactor. Thou, Viṣṇu, constant in thy courses, gavest good-will to all men, and a hymn that lasteth, That thou mightst move us to abundant comfort of very splendid wealth with store of horses. Three times strode forth this God in all his grandeur over this earth bright with a hundred splendours. Foremost be Viṣṇu, stronger than the strongest: for glorious is his name who lives for ever. Over this earth with mighty step strode Viṣṇu, ready to give it for a home to Manu. In him the humble people trust for safety: he, nobly born, hath made them spacious dwellings. To-day I laud this name, O gipivista, I, skilled in rules, the name of thee the Noble. Yea, I the poor and weak praise thee the Mighty who dwellest in the realm beyond this region. What was there to be blamed in thee, O Viṣṇu, when thou declaredst, I am Sipivista? Hide not this form from us, nor keep it secret, since thou didst wear another shape in battle. O Viṣṇu, unto thee my lips cry Vaṣaṭ! Let this mine offering, Sipivista, please thee. May these my songs of eulogy exalt thee. Preserve us evermore, ye Gods, with blessings.

Shradda Sukta (Faith) - RV 10.151
By Faith is Agni kindled, through Faith is oblation offered up. We celebrate with praises Faith upon the height of happiness. Bless thou the man who gives, O Faith; Faith, bless the man who fain would give. Bless thou the liberal worshippers: bless thou the word that I have said. Even as the Deities maintained Faith in the mighty Asuras, So make this uttered wish of mine true for the liberal worshippers. Guarded by Vāyu, Gods and men who sacrifice draw near to Faith. Man winneth Faith by yearnings of the heart, and opulence by Faith. Faith in the early morning, Faith at noonday will we invocate, Faith at the setting of the Sun. O Faith, endow us with belief.

Sanjnana Suktam (Unity in thought) - RV 10.191
THOU, mighty Agni, gatherest up all that is precious for thy friend. Bring us all treasures as thou art enkindled in libation's place Assemble, speak together: let your minds be all of one accord, As ancient Gods unanimous sit down to their appointed share. The place is common, common the assembly, common the mind, so be their thought united. A common purpose do I lay before you, and worship with your general oblation. One and the same be your resolve, and be your minds of one accord. United be the thoughts of all that all may happily agree.  

Surya suktam - RV 1.115
THE brilliant presence of the Gods hath risen, the eye of Mitra, Varuṇa and Agni. The soul of all that moveth not or moveth, the Sun hath filled the air and earth and heaven. Like as a young man followeth a maiden, so doth the Sun the Dawn, refulgent Goddess: Where pious men extend their generations, before the Auspicious One for happy fortune. Auspicious are the Sun's Bay-coloured Horses, bright, changing hues, meet for our shouts of triumph. Bearing our prayers, the sky's ridge have they mounted, and in a moment speed round earth and heaven. This is the Godhead, this might of Sūrya: he hath withdrawn what spread o’er work unfinished. When he hath loosed his Horses from their station, straight over all Night spreadeth out her garment. In the sky's lap the Sun this form assumeth that Varuṇa and Mitra may behold it. His Bay Steeds well maintain his power eternal, at one time bright and darksome at another. This day, O Gods, while Sūrya is ascending, deliver us from trouble and dishonour. This prayer of ours may Varuṇa grant, and Mitra, and Aditi and Sindhu, Earth and Heaven.

RV 10.72 - Aditi and the Birth of the Gods
LET US with tuneful skill proclaim these generations of the Gods, That one may see them when these hymns are chanted in a future age. These Brahmaṇaspati produced with blast and smelting, like a Smith, Existence, in an earlier age of Gods, from Non-existence sprang. Existence, in the earliest age of Gods, from Non-existence sprang. Thereafter were the regions born. This sprang from the Productive Power. Earth sprang from the Productive Power the regions from the earth were born. Dakṣa was born of Aditi, and Aditi was Dakṣa's Child. For Aditi, O Dakṣa, she who is thy Daughter, was brought forth. After her were the blessed Gods born sharers of immortal life. When ye, O Gods, in yonder deep closeclasping one another stood, Thence, as of dancers, from your feet a thickening cloud of dust arose. When, O ye Gods, like Yatis, ye caused all existing things to grow, Then ye brought Sūrya forward who was lying hidden in the sea. Eight are the Sons of Adid who from her body sprang to life. With seven she went to meet the Gods she cast Martanda far away. So with her Seven Sons Aditi went forth to meet the earlier age. She brought Martanda thitherward to spring to life and die again.

The Vishvakarma Suktas
RV 10.81 
HE who sate down as Hotar-priest, the Ṛṣi, our Father, offering up all things existing,— He, seeking through his wish a great possession, came among men on earth as archetypal. What was the place whereon he took his station? What was it that supported him? How was it? Whence Visvakarman, seeing all, producing the earth, with mighty power disclosed the heavens. He who hath eyes on all sides round about him, a mouth on all sides, arms and feet on all sides, He, the Sole God, producing earth and heaven, weldeth them, with his arms as wings, together. What was the tree, what wood in sooth produced it, from which they fashioned out the earth and heaven? Ye thoughtful men inquire within your spirit whereon he stood when he established all things. Nine highest, lowest, sacrificial natures, and these thy mid-most here, O Visvakarman, Teach thou thy friends at sacrifice, O Blessed, and come thyself, exalted, to our worship. Bring thou thyself, exalted with oblation, O Visvakarman, Earth and Heaven to worship. Let other men around us live in folly here let us have a rich and liberal patron. Let us invoke to-day, to aid our labour, the Lord of Speech, the thought-swift Visvakarman. May he hear kindly all our invocations who gives all bliss for aid, whose works are righteous.
RV 10.82
THE Father of the eye, the Wise in spirit, created both these worlds submerged in fatness. Then when the eastern ends were firmly fastened, the heavens and the earth were far extended. Mighty in mind and power is Visvakarman, Maker, Disposer, and most lofty Presence. Their offerings joy in rich juice where they value One, only One, beyond the Seven Ṛṣis. Father who made us, he who, as Disposer, knoweth all races and all things existing, Even he alone, the Deities' narne-giver,him other beings seek for information. To him in sacrifice they offered treasures,—Ṛṣis of old, in numerous troops, as singers, Who, in the distant, near, and lower region, made ready all these things that have existence. That which is earlier than this earth and heaven, before the Asuras and Gods had being,— What was the germ primeval which the waters received where all the Gods were seen together? The waters, they received that germ primeval wherein the Gods were gathefed all together. It rested set upon the Unborn's navel, that One wherein abide all things existing. Ye will not find him who produced these creatures: another thing hath risen up among you. Enwrapt in misty cloud, with lips that stammer, hymn-chanters wander and are discontented.

RV 10.90 - The Purusha Sukta  
A THOUSAND heads hath Puruṣa, a thousand eyes, a thousand feet. On every side pervading earth he fills a space ten fingers wide. This Puruṣa is all that yet hath been and all that is to be; The Lord of Immortality which waxes greater still by food. So mighty is his greatness; yea, greater than this is Puruṣa. All creatures are one-fourth of him, three-fourths eternal life in heaven. With three-fourths Puruṣa went up: one-fourth of him again was here. Thence he strode out to every side over what cats not and what cats. From him Virāj was born; again Puruṣa from Virāj was born. As soon as he was born he spread eastward and westward o’er the earth. When Gods prepared the sacrifice with Puruṣa as their offering, Its oil was spring, the holy gift was autumn; summer was the wood. They balmed as victim on the grass Puruṣa born in earliest time. With him the Deities and all Sādhyas and Ṛṣis sacrificed. From that great general sacrifice the dripping fat was gathered up. He formed the creatures of-the air, and animals both wild and tame. From that great general sacrifice Ṛcas and Sāma-hymns were born: Therefrom were spells and charms produced; the Yajus had its birth from it. From it were horses born, from it all cattle with two rows of teeth: From it were generated kine, from it the goats and sheep were born. When they divided Puruṣa how many portions did they make? What do they call his mouth, his arms? What do they call his thighs and feet? The Brahman was his mouth, of both his arms was the Rājanya made. His thighs became the Vaiśya, from his feet the Śūdra was produced. The Moon was gendered from his mind, and from his eye the Sun had birth; Indra and Agni from his mouth were born, and Vāyu from his breath. Forth from his navel came mid-air the sky was fashioned from his head Earth from his feet, and from his car the regions. Thus they formed the worlds. Seven fencing-sticks had he, thrice seven layers of fuel were prepared, When the Gods, offering sacrifice, bound, as their victim, Puruṣa. Gods, sacrificing, sacrificed the victim these were the earliest holy ordinances. The Mighty Ones attained the height of heaven, there where the Sādhyas, Gods of old, are dwelling.

RV 10.121 - The Hiranyagarbha Sukta
IN the beginning rose Hiranyagarbha, born Only Lord of all created beings. He fixed and holdeth up this earth and heaven. What God shall we adore with our oblation? Giver of vital breath, of power and vigour, he whose commandments all the Gods acknowledge -. The Lord of death, whose shade is life immortal. What God shall we adore with our oblation? Who by his grandeur hath become Sole Ruler of all the moving world that breathes and slumbers; He who is Loord of men and Lord of cattle. What God shall we adore with our oblation? His, through his might, are these snow-covered mountains, and men call sea and Rasā his possession: His arms are these, his are these heavenly regions. What God shall we adore with our oblation? By him the heavens are strong and earth is stedfast, by him light's realm and sky-vault are supported: By him the regions in mid-air were measured. What God shall we adore with our oblation? To him, supported by his help, two armies embattled look while trembling in their spirit, When over them the risen Sun is shining. What God shall we adore with our oblation? What time the mighty waters came, containing the universal germ, producing Agni, Thence sprang the Gods’ one spirit into being. What God shall we adore with our oblation? He in his might surveyed the floods containing productive force and generating Worship. He is the God of gods, and none beside him. What God shall we adore with our oblation? Neer may he harm us who is earth's Begetter, nor he whose laws are sure, the heavens' Creator, He who brought forth the great and lucid waters. What God shall we adore with our oblation? Prajāpati! thou only comprehendest all these created things, and none beside thee. Grant us our hearts' desire when we invoke thee: may we have store of riches in possession.

RV 10.129 - The Nasadiya Sukta
THEN was not non-existent nor existent: there was no realm of air, no sky beyond it. What covered in, and where? and what gave shelter? Was water there, unfathomed depth of water? Death was not then, nor was there aught immortal: no sign was there, the day's and night's divider. That One Thing, breathless, breathed by its own nature: apart from it was nothing whatsoever. Darkness there was: at first concealed in darkness this All was indiscriminated chaos. All that existed then was void and form less: by the great power of Warmth was born that Unit. Thereafter rose Desire in the beginning, Desire, the primal seed and germ of Spirit. Sages who searched with their heart's thought discovered the existent's kinship in the non-existent. Transversely was their severing line extended: what was above it then, and what below it? There were begetters, there were mighty forces, free action here and energy up yonder Who verily knows and who can here declare it, whence it was born and whence comes this creation? The Gods are later than this world's production. Who knows then whence it first came into being? He, the first origin of this creation, whether he formed it all or did not form it, Whose eye controls this world in highest heaven, he verily knows it, or perhaps he knows not.

RV 10.130 - The Creation of Yajna Sukta
THE sacrifice drawn out with threads on every side, stretched by a hundred sacred ministers and one,— This do these Fathers weave who hitherward are come: they sit beside the warp and cry, Weave forth, weave back. The Man extends it and the Man unbinds it: even to this vault of heaven hath he outspun, it. These pegs are fastened to the seat of worship: they made the Sāma-hymns their weaving shuttles. What were the rule, the order and the model? What were the wooden fender and the butter? What were the hymn, the chant, the recitation, when to the God all Deities paid worship? Closely was Gāyatrī conjoined with Agni, and closely Savitar combined with Usnih. Brilliant with Ukthas, Soma joined Anustup: Bṛhaspati's voice by Brhati was aided. Virāj adhered to Varuṇa and Mitra: here Triṣṭup day by day was Indra's portion. Jagatī entered all the Gods together: so by this knowledge men were raised to Ṛṣis. So by this knowledge men were raised to Ṛṣis, when ancient sacrifice sprang up, our Fathers. With the mind's eye I think that I behold them who first performed this sacrificial worship. They who were versed in ritual and metre, in hymns and rules, were the Seven Godlike Ṛṣis. Viewing the path of those of old, the sages have taken up the reins like chariot-drivers.

RV - 10.190 The Agh Marshana Sukta (relieve one of all impurities and usher in light)
FROM Fervour kindled to its height Eternal Law and Truth were born: Thence was the Night produced, and thence the billowy flood of sea arose. From that same billowy flood of sea the Year was afterwards produced, Ordainer of the days nights, Lord over all who close the eye. Dhātar, the great Creator, then formed in due order Sun and Moon. He formed in order Heaven and Earth, the regions of the air, and light.

RV 10.75 - Nadistuti Sukta
THE singer, O ye Waters in Vivasvān's place, shall tell your grandeur forth that is beyond compare. The Rivers have come forward triply, seven and seven. Sindhu in might surpasses all the streams that flow. Varuṇa cut the channels for thy forward course, O Sindhu, when thou rannest on to win the race. Thou speedest o’er precipitous ridges of the earth, when thou art Lord and Leader of these moving floods. His roar is lifted up to heaven above the earth: he puts forth endless vigour with a flash of light. Like floods of rain that fall in thunder from the cloud, so Sindhu rushes on bellowing like a bull. Like mothers to their calves, like milch kine with their milk, so, Sindhu, unto thee the roaring rivers run. Thou leadest as a warrior king thine army's wings what time thou comest in the van of these swift streams. Favour ye this my laud, O Gan!gā, Yamunā, O Sutudri, Paruṣṇī and Sarasvatī: With Asikni, Vitasta, O Marudvrdha, O Ārjīkīya with Susoma hear my call. First with Trstama thou art eager to flow forth, with Rasā, and Susartu, and with Svetya here, With Kubha; and with these, Sindhu and Mehatnu, thou seekest in thy course Krumu and Gomati. Flashing and whitely-gleaming in her mightiness, she moves along her ample volumes through the realms, Most active of the active, Sindhu unrestrained, like to a dappled mare, beautiful, fair to see. Rich in good steeds is Sindhu, rich in cars and robes, rich in gold, nobly-fashioned, rich in ample wealth. Blest Silamavati and young Urnavati invest themselves with raiment rich in store of sweets. Sindhu hath yoked her car, light-rolling, drawn by steeds, and with that car shall she win booty in this fight. So have I praised its power, mighty and unrestrained, of independent glory, roaring as it runs.

RV 10.34 - Aksha Sukta (Gambler’s Lament)
SPRUNG from tall trees on windy heights, these rollers transport me as they turn upon the table. Dearer to me the die that never slumbers than the deep draught of Mujavan's own Soma. She never vexed me nor was angry with me, but to my friends and me was ever gracious. For the die's sake, whose single point is final, mine own devoted wife I alienated. My wife holds me aloof, her mother hates me: the wretched man finds none to give him comfort. As of a costly horse grown old and feeble, I find not any profit of the gamester. Others caress the wife of him whose riches the die hath coveted, that rapid courser: Of him speak father, mother, brothers saying, We know him not: bind him and take him with you. When I resolve to play with these no longer, my friends depart from me and leave me lonely. When the brown dice, thrown on the board, have rattled, like a fond girl I seek the place of meeting. The gamester seeks the gambling-house, and wonders, his body all afire, Shall I be lucky? Still do the dice extend his eager longing, staking his gains against his adversary. Dice, verily, are armed with goads and driving-hooks, deceiving and tormenting, causing grievous woe. They give frail gifts and then destroy the man who wins, thickly anointed with the player's fairest good. Merrily sports their troop, the three-and-fifty, like Savitar the God whose ways are faithful. They bend not even to the mighty's anger: the King himself pays homage and reveres them. Downward they roll, and then spring quickly upward, and, handless, force the man with hands to serve them. Cast on the board, like lumps of magic charcoal, though cold themselves they burn the heart to ashes. The gambler's wife is left forlorn and wretched: the mother mourns the son who wanders homeless. In constant fear, in debt, and seeking riches, he goes by night unto the home of others. Sad is the gambler when he sees a matron, another's wife, and his well-ordered dwelling. He yokes the brown steeds in the early morning, and when the fire is cold sinks down an outcast. To the great captain of your mighty army, who hath become the host's imperial leader, To him I show my ten extended fingers: I speak the truth. No wealth am I withholding. Play not with dice: no, cultivate thy corn-land. Enjoy the gain, and deem that wealth sufficient. There are thy cattle there thy wife, O gambler. So this good Savitar himself hath told me. Make me your friend: show us some little mercy. Assail us not with your terrific fierceness. Appeased be your malignity and anger, and let the brown dice snare some other captive.

RV 10.17 - Dhanannadana Suktam
TVASTAR prepares the bridal of his Daughter: all the world hears the tidings and assembles. But Yama's Mother, Spouse of great Vivasvān, vanished as she was carried to her dwelling. From mortal men they hid the Immortal Lady, made one like her and gave her to Vivasvān. Saranyu brought to him the Aśvin brothers, and then deserted both twinned pairs of children. Guard of the world, whose cattle ne’er are injured, may Pūṣan bear thee hence, for he hath knowledge. May he consign thee to these Fathers' keeping, and to the gracious Gods let Agni give thee. May Āyu, giver of all life, protect thee, and bear thee forward on the distant pathway. Thither let Savitar the God transport thee, where dwell the pious who have passed-before thee. Pūṣan knows all these realms: may he conduct us by ways that are most free from fear and danger. Giver of blessings, glowing, all-heroic, may he, thewise and watchful, go before us. Pūṣan was born to move on distant pathways, on the road far from earth and far from heaven. To both most wonted places of assembly he travels and returns with perfect knowledge. The pious call Sarasvatī, they worship Sarasvatī while sacrifice proceedeth. The pious called Sarasvatī aforetime. Sarasvatī send bliss to him who giveth. Sarasvatī, who camest with the Fathers, with them rejoicing thee in our oblations, Seated upon this sacred grass be joyful, and give us strengthening food that brings no sickness. Thou, called on as Sarasvatī by Fathers who come right forward to our solemn service, Give food and wealth to present sacrificers, a portion, worth a thousand, of refreshment. The Mother Floods shall make us bright and shining, cleansers of holy oil, with oil shall cleanse us: For, Goddesses, they bear off all defilement: I, rise up from them purified and brightened. Through days of earliest date the Drop descended on this place and on that which was before it. I offer up, throughout the seven oblations, the Drop which still to one same place is moving. The Drop that falls, thy stalk which arms have shaken, which from the bosom of the press hath fallen, Or from the Adhvaryu's purifying filter, I offer thee with heart and cry of Vaṣaṭ! That fallen Drop of thine, the stalk which from the ladle fell away, This present God Bṛhaspati shall pour it forth to make us rich. The plants of earth are rich in milk, and rich in milk is this my speech; And rich in milk the essence of the Waters: make me pure therewith.

RV 10.164 - Duhsvapna-nashna Suktam (Rid of bad dreams)
AVAUNT, thou Master of the mind Depart, and vanish far away. Look on Destruction far from hence. The live man's mind is manifold. A happy boon do men elect, a mighty blessing they obtain. Bliss with Vaivasvata they see. The live man's mind seeks many a place. If by address, by blame, by imprecation we have committed sin, awake or sleeping, All hateful acts of ours, all evil doings may Agni bear away to distant places. When, Indra, Brahmaṇaspati, our deeds are wrongful and unjust, May provident Aṅgirasa prevent our foes from troubling, us. We have prevailed this day and won: we are made free from sin and guilt. Ill thoughts, that visit us awake or sleeping, seize the man we hate, yea, seize the man who hateth us.

RV 1.1 - Agni suktam (The Fire)
I Laud Agni, the chosen Priest, God, minister of sacrifice, The hotar, lavishest of wealth. Worthy is Agni to be praised by living as by ancient seers. He shall bring hitherward the Gods. Through Agni man obtaineth wealth, yea, plenty waxing day by day, Most rich in heroes, glorious. Agni, the perfect sacrifice which thou encompassest about Verily goeth to the Gods. May Agni, sapient-minded Priest, truthful, most gloriously great, The God, come hither with the Gods. Whatever blessing, Agni, thou wilt grant unto thy worshipper, That, Aṅgiras, is indeed thy truth. To thee, dispeller of the night, O Agni, day by day with prayer Bringing thee reverence, we come. Ruler of sacrifices, guard of Law eternal, radiant One, Increasing in thine own abode. Be to us easy of approach, even as a father to his son: Agni, be with us for our weal.

RV 1.162 Ashvamedha-Sukta (The Horse)
SLIGHT us not Varuṇa, Aryaman, or Mitra, Ṛbhukṣan, Indra, Āyu, or the Maruts, When we declare amid the congregation the virtues of the strong Steed, God-descended. What time they bear before the Courser, covered with trappings and with wealth, the grasped oblation, The dappled goat goeth straightforward, bleating, to the place dear to Indra and to Pūṣan. Dear to all Gods, this goat, the share of Pūṣan, is first led forward with the vigorous Courser, While Tvaṣṭar sends him forward with the Charger, acceptable for sacrifice, to glory. When thrice the men lead round the Steed, in order, who goeth to the Gods as meet oblation, The goat precedeth him, the share of Pūṣan, and to the Gods the sacrifice announceth. Invoker, ministering priest, atoner, fire-kindler Soma-presser, sage, reciter, With this well ordered sacrifice, well finished, do ye fill full the channels of the rivers. The hewers of the post and those who carry it, and those who carve the knob to deck the Horse's stake; Those who prepare the cooking-vessels for the Steed,—may the approving help of these promote our work. Forth, for the regions of the Gods, the Charger with his smooth back is come my prayer attends him. In him rejoice the singers and the sages. A good friend have we won for the Gods’ banquet. May the fleet Courser's halter and his heel-ropes, the head-stall and the girths and cords about him. And the grass put within his mouth to bait him,—among the Gods, too, let all these be with thee. What part of the Steed's flesh the fly hath eaten, or is left sticking to the post or hatchet, Or to the slayer's hands and nails adhereth,—among the Gods, too, may all this be with thee. Food undigested steaming from his belly, and any odour of raw flesh remaining, This let the immolators set in order and dress the sacrifice with perfect cooking. What from thy body which with fire is roasted, when thou art set upon the spit, distilleth, Let not that lie on earth or grass neglected, but to the longing Gods let all be offered. They who observing that the Horse is ready call out and say, the smell is good; remove it; And, craving meat, await the distribution,—may their approving help promote labour. The trial-fork of the flesh-cooking caldron, the vessels out of which the broth is sprinkled, The warming-pots, the covers of the dishes, hooks, carving-boards,—all these attend the Charger. The starting-place, his place of rest and rolling, the ropes wherewith the Charger's feet were fastened, The water that he drank, the food he tasted,—among the Gods, too, may all these attend thee. Let not the fire, smoke-scented, make thee crackle, nor glowing caldron smell and break to pieces. Offered, beloved, approved, and consecrated,—such Charger do the Gods accept with favour. The robe they spread upon the Horse to clothe him, the upper covering and the golden trappings, The halters which restrain the Steed, the heel-ropes,—all these, as grateful to the Gods, they offer. If one, when seated, with excessive urging hath with his heel or with his whip distressed thee, All these thy woes, as with the oblations' ladle at sacrifices, with my prayer I banish. The four-and-thirty ribs of the. Swift Charger, kin to the Gods, the slayer's hatchet pierces. Cut ye with skill, so that the parts be flawless, and piece by piece declaring them dissect them. Of Tvaṣṭar's Charger there is one dissector,—this is the custom-two there are who guide him. Such of his limbs as I divide in order, these, amid the balls, in fire I offer. Let not thy dear soul burn thee as thou comest, let not the hatchet linger in thy body. Let not a greedy clumsy immolator, missing the joints, mangle thy limbs unduly. No, here thou diest not, thou art not injured: by easy paths unto the Gods thou goest. Both Bays, both spotted mares are now thy fellows, and to the ass's pole is yoked the Charger. May this Steed bring us all-sustaining riches, wealth in good kine, good horses, manly offspring. Freedom from sin may Aditi vouchsafe us: the Steed with our oblations gain us lordship!

RV 6.28 - Go sukta (Cow sukta)
THE Kine have come and brought good fortune: let them rest in the cow-pen and be happy near us. Here let them stay prolific, many-coloured, and yield through many morns their milk for Indra. Indra aids him who offers sacrifice and gifts: he takes not what is his, and gives him more thereto. Increasing ever more and ever more his wealth, he makes the pious dwell within unbroken bounds. These are ne’er lost, no robber ever injures them: no evil-minded foe attempts to harass them. The master of the Kine lives many a year with these, the Cows whereby he pours his gifts and serves the Gods. The charger with his dusty brow o’ertakes them not, and never to the shambles do they take their way. These Cows, the cattle of the pious worshipper, roam over widespread pasture where no danger is. To me the Cows seem Bhaga, they seem Indra, they seem a portion of the first-poured Soma. These present Cows, they, O ye Indra. I long for Indra with my heart and spirit. O Cows, ye fatten e’en the worn and wasted, and make the unlovely beautiful tolook on. Prosper my house, ye with auspicious voices. Your power is glorified in our assemblies. Crop goodly pasturage and be prolific drink pure sweet water at good drinking places. Never be thief or sinful man your matter, and may the dart of Rudra still avoid you. Now let this close admixture be close intermigled with these Cows, Mixt with the Steer's prolific flow, and, Indra, with thy hero might.

